You can never be too careful with photo and licensing.
I once got in trouble for using a photo that was copyrighted.
The photo was included with something I downloaded online for free and I assumed all the contents inside
were also free.
Little did I know a large stock photo company sent me a bill for the use of the photo books.
Fourteen hundred dollar mistake.
How do I make sure all photos are used for projects both personal and paid for clients are safe to use.
There are a few things need to know when buying and downloading free photos.
First of all I'd like to start with the easy free to use licenses as they seem to be less complicated
in nature with no strings attached.
These are the Creative Commons zero are sometimes seen as zero when listing the type of license the
photo uses.
Take for example pixels dot com or pics eBay.
Most photos on these Web sites are open source and free to use.
They come with a C C zero or creative commons zero license.
These are as free to use as it gets.
You don't have to even provide attribution or link back to the original author although it's still nice
to do they still come with a few rules which you can look at on each photo and you cannot resell the
image without modifying it significantly.
You can also not offer it as a free download on your own Web site.
You never own the photo you're just free to use it for projects for both commercial paid and personal
use Creative Commons is a common form of open source photo licensing.
They come with a few stages of protection for the author of the photo.
It is good to understand these different types of licensing.
As you hunt down free photos as they will let you know if you need to offer a link or small print giving
credit to the original author or not.
Or if you have the ability to use that free photo for commercial use remix culture allows you to remix
or combine this photo and alter it in some way to create a different or unique picture.
Take for example a double exposure of two images.
I'm on Wikipedia for example and typed in graphic design.
I click on the first photo available and I look down at the license for each photo.
If I want to use this photo in one of my videos I am free to do so because it's marked as public domain.
This photo has been released to the public and there's no license attached to it.
I have noticed a few photos later on that's titled C.C. b y essay 3.0.
This is a creative commons license.
I look back at the chart or click on the license you can read all about what you need to do to be able
to use this photo.
In this case I would need to give some sort of attribution to the author when using this photo.
So we talked about free photos but what about paid stock photography.
What are the rules there.
Not all paid stock photography is the same.
You'll sometimes see two different types of licensing levels that you could purchase the stock photo
and they need to pay attention to how you're going to use it because maybe you need the higher priced
extended license and not even know it each photo license is different depending on both the platform
and the author.
For example on this photo a standard license would be three credits or thirty three dollars and would
allow me to use it on items that would be printed or appear in less than a half million items.
But I cannot use it on physical products for resale.
A T-shirt for example although I can use it for a printed poster I just can't sell that poster online
for a price but I can use it as design for a client poster for example if I planned on multiple users
or computers being able to use this photo.
I do need to purchase an extended license for this photo.
The word multi seat is a term to explain this concept of multiple users being able to download and use
this photo for your company for example.
Also if I wanted to place this item on something that's going to be printed on more than a half million
items.
You're going to need the extended license for this photo.
Also if I wanted to sell my poster design and use this photo as a part of it I'm going to need the extended
license for this photo.
Each photo will have different stipulations for when you need a standard license and when you'll need
the extended license.
A lot of people think they can purchase a standard stock photo license and placed in their photo library
and continue to use it Klein after client.
But if I buy a photo for client A's brochure I cannot use it again for clients B poster until I purchase
a second license with that client.
It would not be very fair to the original photographer if I did so as I'm using it for two different
clients but they only got paid once with photo.
Also I think some people make the mistake of purchasing a standard license on a photo and placing it
on a coffee mug for example for resale.
What they needed was the extended license.
There's a pretty big penalty to placing a photo on a graphic for a t shirt without the proper license.
Remember not all graphics need to be purchased.
Try to create you are combining with several different free to use graphic resources that have open
license and create something unique.
Do not make the same mistake I did and assume a photo you received in a free template you found online
is free to use as well.
A totally legal double check the license of a free download a template to make sure the photo is covered
or is an open creative commons photo.
Interested in contributing a photo or image to the Creative Commons calls visit Creative Commons dot
org slash choose and pick the type of license you want to create for your photo.
Then whenever you post your photo for free you can attach a license to it to let others know what they
need to do to properly use your photo if anything at all.